2025/05/28
[p] through all of my lives
Never.

What? No way? You’re bullshitting.

Ahahaha, no. As a time traveler, you truly get no success in that aspect of life. Not even a fling or anything. Or even a situationship.

Bull shit!

Prove me wrong then?

Oh, I sure will do.

Through all of my lives. I will do.

Through all of the boys and girls and all the years I will be spending without you, I will do.

Four years ago, I made a vow to you. That I will exceed. That I will even supersede your expectations. 

It wasn’t easy. In fact, it was hell. You were right to say “ahahaha” before saying “no.” I hate it when you add salt before the wound even opens. When you planted that idea in my mind as a child, you had the scalpel ready for the surgery. You even planted a pacemaker that kept the internal bleeding consistent. But I had no choice but to cut it myself—without my intervention, the “truly” in your statement might have as well been true.

And so I bit the own hand that feeded me—me. I had to eat a piece of myself to truly open up myself to this world. At first, the sharks arrived and smelled my blood. Then they ate me and filled my insides and outsides with blood. You could argue it was my own doing, but sometimes I would like to think fate really just wanted to fuck me in the ass. 

After that, I was drained of life. Not just because of the sea dogs but of the diffusion of the water around me too. Too diluted I would say. Not basic, not acidic, just pure liquid H2O. I didn’t hate that kind of life. It honestly felt like the life I have had before I bit myself. But it felt empty, but it felt serene. But it felt too full of water, but it felt too less of air.

Through the oceans, through the seas, and eventually in space I found the light of my life. It only took thousands of feet below—in the abyssal plain—where darkness reigns to find not the one, but my bioluminescence. They say it takes evolution millions of years, but for my generation, it only took one second to find that spark. Nevertheless, to all of my skin cells and the skin cells of those who came before me, thanks for defying gravity.

Three years passed when I rose back to the ground, I finally inhaled my first fresh breath of air. He was a great kind of person. I wouldn’t call him a fish because he doesn’t smell and he doesn’t live. I think I love him because he cries without hesitation. He doesn’t let his sadness build up because his tears fill up the sea. I think he is capable of defending me from the sharks, the anglers, the animals that pretend to bring you to the light. I think he is capable of protecting me from myself. 

I think I have successfully defied you.

Wow, that’s amazing.

Is that everything?

Well, will you allow me to speak more?

As long as you won’t change anything more, yes.

I have a confession to make. I am so happy for you. It is with my unfortunate commemoration if I have harmed you through the process, but it takes a lot of effort to change someone’s fate. And to change yours? It was impossible. With full disclosure, there are no fates I can’t change of others.

So I had to do it the other way around. 

Maybe, through all of my lives, I couldn’t. So what if, you did, through all of yours? They say actions matter more than words, but actions sometimes cannot purposely make anything up to interpretation in fast ways. 

It was nice knowing you, my friend. Sorry for not being there when you needed me the most—I truly believed during that those times, you needed yourself. Sorry for changing my own fate to match mine and not yours—I truly believed that during those times, I needed myself. But what’s done is done.

Through the detour of your fate, maybe it will change mine.

They say the best way to show your love for someone is to let them have the best outcome. I’m glad we both achieved that. Albeit not together. 

Maybe in a different universe, maybe in a different world, a world and universe I could have chosen. But know that through all of my lives, I have loved you. Every single version of me just loves differently.

This is for all of your lives.
2025/05/30
[p] bronze fleece
Rodel, I think it’s time for me to steer my ship?

I’d like to think I had a part in building the parts or designing the plan, but we never really voyaged with a greater island in mind. You were perfectly satisfied with the silky waters of your land… beautifully anchored for a while into the sea ground you’ve flourished and built. For a steamer who was designed to venture out to the horizon, it’s ironic that you were the one who made me realize that even our exclusive economic zones have coral reefs and atolls. 

My boatchild and boatadult, my Theseus, my thesaurus, tell me, is there a term for a figure of speech that lets a part represent its whole?

A lot of people say you are the limit, but if I was to be asked, I wouldn’t say the same because that implies there is no horizon or underground. In the bow, you aren’t just limited by the far-fetched beyond—you are in sight of the limitless surfaces of the Earth you haven’t yet seen.

A glistening reminder of the Non-newtonian materials we’ve played with. The sea does not appreciate things that don’t fare well with wetness—all voyagers are in a constant state of welling with water. Life makes us tough when we acknowledge our softness. Through all of the chuckling in the funnel, the winds we’ve sustained, the reconnaissance in the deck, the gelatinous edibles I attempted to eat to avoid scurvy, the virtual realities we’ve attempted to create, the tides that tried us to flip over, I am glad we defied the fates of the Santiago or the San Antonio.

And finally, the stern. The part I see of you before I finally let go of the auto-lock, the helm rusty from lack of use. It was fun having a perfect justification to steering forward instead of left and right toward the Bermuda Triangles or the Point Nemos. But I think the second Argo has finally found its destination—another tougher, stormy path to Colchis that nobody has to take.

Rodel, I think it’s time for the wind to start adjusting our sails to where it wants us to go?

I remember when we were still tracking the days in the sea. Nine hundred fifteen days and nights, approximately two and a half years. As of writing this historical entry, two days have passed since nine hundred fifteen days did. And it makes me sad that I have nothing to write anymore. I exhausted my mind of your attributes as you have exhausted yours.

The flags we waved through that six-year expedition weren’t always concurrent, weren’t always strong. But what matters is we are waving the right flags where the winds are taking our vessels to the right places.

Even if your individual parts have been changed, molded, damaged and replaced—it’s still you in there. The ship who finally became as tall as his love for others. The person navigating the bloody waters, the person overjoyed in cerulean glee in times of eudaemonia. 

As always, I know the future is uncertain. Maybe I know the future, maybe I don’t. If there’s one thing I will tell you, however, is that standing still, or staying at this same place forever, is not what you were born to do.

My savior, you are not a ship in a bottle—and even if you are, there is no ounce of disbelief the Tides won’t  throw you together alongside bottles that came from what will be your shore.

And even if you are, it was designed by those who were in awe of the ripples you have sent through and beyond the sea, to commemorate a legend they might never be in touch with for all of their voyages.

Rodel, wow, after all of these years… the ships have finally sailed.
2025/05/30
[p] jump the gun
Look at him up there. Hand on the right grip, arms placed such that when nervous doesn’t shiver, eyes at a sufficient distance to the trigger to avoid getting hit by recoil. Now, we wait for him to take a shot.

Any time now.

Hmm.

Still nothing?

Let’s try forcing it out of him then. What if… I stopped watching for a moment? Maybe he’ll start shooting now.

It’s pretty comfy over here, if I’m going to be honest. Waiting for the progress of a friend with a goal. Lots of goals honestly. It’s just funny to me how one of them is something founded in a dream of the past. I’d say I have done a lot in this timeframe too, but maybe when I’m back, he’s done more?

Oh. Yes, it worked. What an amazing man. One could say he is quite successful now. More gear, no more wind to sway his bullets, taller buildings, better scenery. Only one thing… he still hasn’t shot his shot.

Maybe I’ll shoot my shot now.

bang

Hey. Mr. Tenk. You took so long. What I gave you here… is just a warning shot. Stand up, you’re still alive.

Two? Three years? Of coming back here sometimes and looking at one window of opportunity. Look, you may not trust your sharpshooting instincts, but a bullet ejected is better than a bullet taken. 

We’re moving to Urban Post next month. If I were you, jump the gun this time.

Look again in the window. A silhouette, right? 

Now, shoot.

bang

Did the silhouette move?

No?

I guess we will never know now.



2025/05/30
[p] death of two bachelors
$605,000,000 for the head of a macho Mr. Cole? This is going to be the easiest rags-to-riches story I have ever seen. I mean, “last seen in Ghost Town”! There is barely anyone there, just an old raggedy, bereft place full of tumbling weeds of tumbleweed.

Easy, my ass?

Woah, woah, woah. Who is this ghastly presence behind me?

Mr. Cole.

You are arrested for… I don’t know, actually. But there is a $605,000,000 bounty on your head, so here’s the plan. I turn you in, and we split it after you get out of jail!

I’m afraid that won’t work.

Why so?

Because you’re supposed to turn me into myself?

Oh, so I don’t have to cuff you?

Yes. You just have to make me realize why you’re better than me to turn me in.

Oh my. I barely know who you are! But okay. Uhh, I have better shoes! No, vintage is beautiful. My clothes are not ragged. Cuts in clothes remind us of our battles. My feet are not callused! That means you just haven’t had fun as a child. 

Hmm.

I am more intelligent than you? Maybe, but your words don’t reflect that. There is a level of perceptiveness I have that you can’t meticulously decipher? If you had read the fine print of the bounty you would’ve known about the specifics. That doesn’t reflect your keenness for things. I don’t counter everybody’s points?

Haha, I got you there. Haha. 

Hey, old man. Things have been rough for both of us. 

I agree. I mean, we wouldn’t be doing this if we weren’t mentally insane.
Remember, that time before sharpshooting school where you, I, and our friends had tried so hard to make you weaker with the weirdest ways possible, yet you still bullseyed four-fifths of the shots? Those were some fun times.

Perhaps. Even the times where we still fell in love with ephemeral spirits, and the ghosts, and the transient blue aves.

You have a better memory than me. That reminds me, entering the saloon and the life that effectively made them bachelors for life. But there’s a charm that plays into it, don’t you think?

You know, not being preoccupied with the things that actually made us happy in pursuit of things that we thought made us happy in the future. I don’t know. I feel like I should have also made myself happy back then. Every year felt like an impossible year, all because we believed it would be better.

You’re right. These eternal pizza meals can’t really take us back to the good times, don’t they? I mean, ever since the future for everyone got demolished because of that asteroid, all I think about is the things I could have been happy about in advance— while they were still there.

I don’t know. I feel like an asteroid crash can be a good gateway to a fresh start for humanity. But you’re right. We’ve had our fun times too, way before we thought about being happy in the future—if that even exists anymore. Maybe, we should’ve made ourselves happy all the time—in the past, present, and future.

But we did?

Yes. But I don’t think we should think about it anymore. That’s just another way to regret the present in the future, dare I say. 

I give up, I’m not better than you. I’m not turning you in.

Neither of us are. But why, my dear, must you stop trying. Nothing will make us happy anymore. Just do it.

Nothing is something Mr. Cole. It gives us space to make more things to remember.

You’re thinking too deep into it. Just eat your sisig.

Say, what do you think about this ghost town? Isn’t it empty?

It gives me peace of mind. It may be empty, but it’s the last remnant of our times as sharpshooters.

Haha, you’re right. You’re the only one who really did apply his skills on the battlefield tho. I didn’t. In fact, I didn’t know how to shoot this revolver until you taught me. 

Say, Mr. Cole, do you want to duel?

If you say so.

Three. Mr. Cole, you taught me everything I know, but I’m sure you didn’t teach me everything you know. You’ve certainly learned from the best.

Yes, I certainly learned from you.

Two. Mr. Cole, you’ve changed your guns a lot. I remember when you were still shooting with a shotgun. Lots of surface hits, but barely any scratches. And then the AK47. That was better. It left a presence. But it wasn’t lethal. Tell me, Mr. Cole, is this your first time using a revolver on a person?

Yes. But not my first time.

One. Mr. Cole, were you happy to live a life not full of happiness?

Yes. Because I was at least happy for some of it. And I channeled the sadness into things that will make me happy in the future. I know my past self would be happy knowing he was giving himself an opportunity to be better equipped for happiness someday. And I’m happy knowing my past self tried to make me happy at the expense of himself.

Same.

I can’t bring myself to do it.

You fool. You thought I would actually shoot you?

No, never in a million years. Because you never shot.

Funny joke. Let’s just wait it out then. When all is reset after all hope seemed lost—our deaths as a bachelor won’t be because we’re dead.

But because we’re no longer bachelors.







2025/05/30
[p] serendipity
Once upon a time, there was a god of the astronomical scale named Xander who was everything, everywhere all at once.

Unfortunately, he caught the sights of a being he created, and decided to throw away all of his apparent powers to chase for his newfound definition of being a God. Through this, he lost his immortality, as well as having to be born in some way or another to have a natural reason for being in his world. 

This time, he was blessed with the worst luck possible. Born in the Philippines with a body just enough to be called handsome by women but not to him. Being placed in a hot place with hyperhidrosis must be painful, but not acknowledging that you are a hot person is worse—a death sentence for those who want to be in a relationship but choose to push themselves away due to their “out-of-his-league” perceptions.

After his terrestrial birth, Xander forgot everything about his deistic origins, but it definitely showed. There is some form of intelligence that is apparent in his innate ability to physically manipulate things in his mind—however, not in real life. His interesting proclivity in entering alternate universes through digital devices and helping, or destroying, entire civilizations is also a trait to note. If there is one thing worth knowing about him however, it is his eventual but destined resonance toward his reason for becoming human.

Through all of the conic section lines, the pranks, sour citrus shakes he had drank, the maizes he had to traverse, and the principal letters he had to write, one thing is certain about Xander—all of his adventures about loving humans make him discover something that helps him find the one.

But not all gods and humans are happy about his discovery.

When Xander finds the one, he will become a god once again. And being his self-proclaimed guardian, the man who tried his best to give him wings but not throw it away like Icarus, I believe him staying human is for the greater good.

It’s over now, Xander. The sands of time have stopped forever, thanks to my intervention on the 473 parallel universes where you would have won.

It amazes me how I had to do nothing but observe. There were five branches where you could have beaten me, but you did the same—observe, wait, Jarvis your way out of the possibilities until you exhausted all of them. 

The god of space, they call this wretched seeming failure of a person. But what is a failure but not potential victories? What is failure if not the alternate universe of a person who won?

In our battle of the universe, through all of the shooting games, shifting tastes of symphonies, farmlands and electronics, our dance of time and space does not end here. In your honor, I would love to tell you that you are the most human god I have ever seen throughout the history of my eternal life.

Thanks for making me realize that to be a spectator is a fate worse than being human. So, I will follow suit and become a god in the way that you are.

But my final deed as a god: in your honor, I am ready to reset the sands of time.

On one condition: my only hope as I flip the hourglass, is that you do not forget all of the lives you have lived as you are reborn.

When the race is over, you will have all the space in the world to try everything you could have ever had. And I will have all the time in the world to see you happy, finally getting the love you deserved since you were born. 

Only if you do not forget what it feels like to love and be human in your second and third lives, will you know how it feels to be finally loved by another human.

As for me, I am looking forward to experiencing love equipped with the vicarious experiences of the most powerful human who has ever lived. Maybe, I’ll be born as a human who, against all odds, will be smart enough to be placed in the same educational institution, will be friends with you albeit not immediately, will see you commit the mistakes that will teach you lessons, and will see you learn and finally find the one together—all without the preface of us being supreme beings of the universe.

Because that would certainly make me feel like the most powerful being of the multiverse.




2025/05/30
[p] the fourth wall

Mr. Ji, I lied. I give up on my intention on deciphering who you really are because I am not your wall breaker.

Because you are your own wall breaker.

I mean, you said it yourself. You are him. 

So, I want you to do something else. Break mine.

I have already given you four years to come up with an explanation of my actions. If any of the facts below help you better though, allow me to cite some of them.

Ever since you sent me that first radio, I already knew you would be one of those people who would know who I really am someday. I don’t know, just a Trisolaran feeling. You’ve opened our worlds to many things, especially in the field of computing and strategizing. They were right to send you as a representative of Earth because it represents how wonderful humans really are when they work together to fight a certain cause.

The indomitable human spirit is a scary concept, I would say. For a species with such a short lifespan, they definitely sent many signals to the universe. I have a feeling you will command people to destroy worlds in the future, but I hope you find something to settle for, to live for, before that happens.

I respect your choice to stay there on Earth, where struggles and comfort meet to make a life of hell and heaven. As we take on this planet together, I hope I give you sufficient time to find not just your mission, but my mission too.

Your time starts now.
2025/05/30
[p] sign of peace
Father, I confess…

That I have not finished all of the novels and the shows you’ve told me to read. And I’m going to be honest, there are so many volumes to go—maybe around seventeen? For me, to even get to the part I haven’t watched yet.

I will also confess that this is my first time confessing. I could never really bring myself to do it, Father. Everytime I try, I get scared about all the punishment penance will inflict. Why does letting myself go feel like locking myself down, Father?

Father, I will also let you know that I feel like I don’t deserve to be here. You know, to be in your abode. We’ve talked a lot, and we both know that I’m more than my confessions. 

But still, don’t you think it’s tough that we only meet here again?

My man! Do you remember me?

Sorry, I don’t…

Oh, well… it’s the one and only! The person who you talked to for many, many years in the past? I may not be your right hand or the disciple who betrayed you, but you ought to remember some form of me?

Sorry, daughter of God. But I deal with lots of things.

Maybe… this will make you remember. Father, remember when we talked about forgetting? From moving on?

No.

Wow, perhaps you did it a little too well. You did say it was one of your greatest fears. In spite of all the popularity we perceive for us, someday we will be forgotten. Is that right? It’s almost as if being a manipulative conniving dictator is more memorable than the guy who gave you a hand, or the guy who you believed your secrets are safe with.

Yes, evil is indeeed memorable.

So why don’t you remember me?

Because you have done no evil against me.

Maybe, moving on is not determined by whether we are good or evil. Maybe, it’s if you perceive someone’s actions as evil. 

Ah, I remember now. You’re the girl who loves to spew the most random bullshit that sounds melancholic but really isn’t? No? Is that evil?

For me, yes. Forgive me, father, for I have given you false hope.

No, it’s fine. I wasn’t giving you the full picture anyway. You know, imperfect information, a term in your favorite field back then.

So, father, have you forgiven me?

I don’t remember you, so yes, I have.

Sorry, Father. It seems that you haven’t. But if you do believe you have, then I will let you go.

I’ve lived a great life.

I’m glad to hear that.

The false hope? Don’t blame yourself. Hope is a dangerous thing, and we let ourselves feel that. What is a life without looking forward to something, to someone? I now look forward to God, but before that—I had to look forward to many things…some I had, some I couldn’t have, some I didn’t try to have. Without hope, I wouldn’t have reached this life… a life I’m perfectly happy with.

Then, you truly have forgiven everyone?

Yes. Even him. 

Me?

Yes.

How about her?

I never had to forgive her. She did nothing wrong.

So how could you forgive her if you can’t forgive me?

You. Are the version on my mind that I created in pursuit of hope. As your creator, I still haven’t forgiven myself. As for you, you did nothing wrong.

What would you do if I forgave her creator?

Then I will forgive you.

Father, it’s time to let go. You’ve lived a happy life. I can’t let a version of myself I no longer believe in plague your thoughts every night.

Forgive me, Daughter, for I have sinned.

It’s fine, Father, we all make mistakes. At least we know we’re making them. Peace be with you, father.

Peace be with you, too.

Father, are you talking to yourself again?

No. I am just making a sign of peace. 

White smoke emanates from the Vatican.













2025/05/30
[p] for years, transform 

Straighten your edges and make yourself prim and proper with this one single trick!

So, Kira, are you ready to try it out? 

Hell, yes!

Okay. So first put your feet in. And then it will start doing the steps for you. There, your legs will get sucked in the machine. Then your arms will sort of just readjust itself until only your head is outside the machine.

And then, it will ask you a question. “There is no turning back? Would you like to proceed?”

Yes.

Okay, shall I put your head in now? The chicken in you will disappear after this. Think about it, all the grad school acceptances! All of the mathematical genius! So, the machine will ask you another question. “This is your final chance? Would you like to proceed?”

Yes.

Fuck it. Kira, no! What are you doing? Just say “no!”

Eh, I don’t want to live this sussy baka life anymore. I want to skip life’s struggles. Let’s get to the good part and start earning money!

I hope you’re kidding, but do you remember how you got here? Not your stroke of genius, but your stroke at the funny bone! And you’ll straighten that one out just for a better mind?

Haha, don’t worry, my friend. I haven’t lost myself yet. I know you were joking.

But this machine is actually real. You could’ve lost all of what made you you!

You’ve come so far. Graduate school really changed the two of us, huh? You making these brain fourier transforms, and me being able to look into the true intentions of people without the use of machinery.

Yes, we did, indeed. I still remember when they didn’t believe in us.

You’re right. We just had to come back stronger and more deserving.

And then we got here?

And then we got here.

That doesn’t do service to the things we actually went through. All those backs are broken to the promises we’ve made. I was so ready to cross my fingers, but no, I knew this was one word I should have honored no matter what.

Do you think we should make a promise to each other ten years from now?

Sure, what is it?

You decide.

Fine. Let’s live a happy life. 

In what way?

We decide. Just be alive by then. The promise will be honored when we are both alive to tell our stories to one another.

That’s a deal.
2025/05/30
[p] so tonight that you might see

Ouch, that feels painful!

…

It has been my utmost grievance to inform you that Captain Noodle has… passed away.

Captain Noodle was a person that appeared and played a significant part in the midst of our lives. At some point, we have all played a part in Noodle’s life. We helped her create electrifying and acidifying concoctions as well as she had helped us auditorily broaden our horizons and even give us a name for ourselves. 

Noodle was a pioneer in steering ships, as well as she was in steering and navigating the lives of others. Most importantly, however, she remained true to herself.

As she is reborn in the name of the nine captains of the sea, we are hoping she will not get stuck on the glitter freezes of life. As she fades into the darkest areas of the ocean, we hope she survives the rampant waves and ends up on the hill of melancholy that will help remind her of the good things she had felt in our company.

Sometimes, we feel like we have taken more than given to Noodle. Which is why someday, when the weather permits, we are looking forward to a Noodle has finally gotten the liberty to be the master of her fate and the captain of her soul.

Her future is coming on…

…

Sorry, doctor. That’s the effects of anesthesia getting into him. 

Yes, I know. That doesn’t change anything. 2D, call it fate, call it karma, but I finally got to revisit the island I once left. Seeing it through the windows of the soul, vividly intact through your eyes, through the amygdala…

Hopefully, restoring the beauty of the mind that contains it doesn’t change much about the fact that our past lives still remain inside the skulls that protect us from life’s contemporary tsunamis. 

That after all these millennia, worlds apart, we had once sailed the same ships during a time that felt like another life.
2025/06/01
[p] hex
The best way to pack almost any spherical object is through the use of hexagonal structures. Six-sided polygons that have the backing of mathematical magic and natural coincidence to be able to be divided into the trigonal bases of life. Contrary to these beauties however, are the existence of the buzzing beings that utilize these shapes for their creation.

On a tangent, no pun intended, according to all known laws of aviation, there is no way that a bee should be able to fly. Its wings are too small to get its fat little body off the ground. The bee, of course, flies anyway. Because bees don't care what humans think is impossible.

There are many types of bees. There is the queen bee, who may sound like a beautiful position but really it is just the way it sounds. Imagine living with the sole purpose of just giving birth and not being able to fly. The carpenter bees are workers, the people who grind for the sole purpose of increasing their hive—I’m sure whoever is reading this knows what neoliberal concept I am talking about. And then the bumblebees, the stingers who die after unleashing their aura on humans.

On the topic of unearthing a spell, hexing was a famous term in the Medieval era. During these times, anyone who could do extraordinary things were envied by most people—and so, the rise of witch accusations arose. Fortunately, in these contemporary times, beings from all species have more regard for development and progression and only vestiges of these prides and prejudices stay. It is however, notable, that some beings can be unlucky enough to be hexed with sharing a space with the misogynies of the past. 

Here we observe the most mystical bee I have ever seen in my life as a scientist. I honestly don’t know what species of bee this is. It does not just give birth, but identifies as a queen. It does work, really well honestly and filling gallons of honey at a time, but knows someday, it will fight to live a life without being forced into a paradigm of carpenterism. Finally, it does not waste away and shortens its own lifespan after fighting back those inflicting horror to the hive.

This bee has been hexed with the experience of living. Many things have happened to her as long as the hive has been alive. The bee had made friends with other bees (but not with the birds yet), to the extent that the bee has human levels of sentience and love. This bee knows that letting go is difficult. In fact, even humans have difficulties moving on if they believe there are ways that they don’t have to. For all we know, this bee could choose to work so hard and shoot his shots just to be in the room where his love bee happens.

Relative to other bees who know nothing about the happiness and struggles of mammalian development, this bee is experiencing hell and heaven at the same time. Moreover, I forgot to mention that this bird, despite all of her achievements, can’t fly. Because this bee, as I have mentioned, is human—because this bee knows that aviation is impossible. 

This bee, however, knows that she does not have to live like an ordinary human in her suffering. Because in the end, she is still a bee. After a while, because she is free, she will be so occupied with everything that she can do—from all of the bursts to all of the blurts—that she will forget that she thought she was never capable of flying.

This bee does not know yet that she has been hexed with the greatest blessing of all time: being able to live through all of the consequences of her actions. These do not necessarily have to be good or bad—that is upon the reception of the bee. 

I know she can talk and think. She had already realized she can do these—I am just waiting for her to finally come out of her second pupa (pardon the metaphor, bees do not actually undergo metamorphosis) and live among a world where ranks do not exist, where she is treated like a human, and she has all the time in the world to live what only a human could dream of.

Maybe, by that time, she will acknowledge that she can fly


2025/06/01
[p] chronos
Two lustrous masks upon thy visage rest, of gold and sterling silver, o’er life and death these masks preside.

Upon choosing gold, you will live a life. Yes. You heard that right. You will forever be immortal and create ripples across space and time. There are both blessings and consequences that come upon wearing this visage that you will have to think about as you decide to partake in aureate aura.

When you choose silver, you will die–

Silver.

What? I haven’t explained it yet.

Silver.

Why?

Because I want to die? What is life without death? What is life if not waiting to die in the best way possible? What is life if not wanting to die with those you vowed “til death do us part” with? What is life without looking back and letting it all come back to your head before your eyes close forever?

But don’t you think immortality has its benefits too?

Yeah, but what if I live past the heat death of the universe? That’s a fate worse than dying, don’t you think? Staring into the blankness of space, the life once there just turned into dark energy forever?  And what even is immortality? Physical? Biological? Spiritual? Dealing with death is easier than living without a cause.

Well, let’s change the rules up a bit. What if, you are immortal, but when you touch a very specific immortal snail that will make its living goal to get a piece of you, you will meet your inevitable fate?

That certainly changes things up a bit now. Well, I could use that opportunity to go around various countries every couple of months now. I could even just capture the snail and keep it in a jar. And when I no longer want to deal with living? Bam, I’ll finally let it free.

But wouldn’t that make the snail’s life miserable? It’s almost like your decision to choose whenever you want to die has turned the snail’s immortality into an eternal suffering.

You’re right. Then maybe I’ll just let it free and stick with my moving countries strategy then.

That’s what I like about you, human. After all these years, you are still quite the talker.

What is there to do now? We’ve exchanged the details of our lives enough to be able to write a simple autobiography for one another, let our guardians meet for a simple courtesy. Hell, I even helped you find the human you were going to live with for his version of eternity.

Yes. I will acknowledge that from you. It was great to be that person for the relatively “short” time we’ve been around.

Of course. I can’t thank you enough too for just forgetting your lifelong mission to destroy our curses. I would have been dead by then.

Well, yes. But seeing you enjoy the moment so much has made me think that maybe, it was unnecessary. I told myself, “maybe, I’ll let you have your fun,” because it wouldn’t make much of a difference if I didn’t break your immortality, wouldn’t it?

Yes.

But now that the human’s dead… would you want to wear the silver mask now?

Yes. That’s the reason why I said yes, after all. What is life without my life? What is life if not waiting to die with the best being possible? What is life without closing your eyes forever, knowing that you will see the same thing?

You’re right. I just wanted to know that this is an informed decision.

Before we go, thank you for choosing to be alive. Through a mutual understanding, we have lived.

Times like this make me sad that things have come to an end, one death causing another. But I should have seen this a long time coming— we have defied it enough to regret being at the cusp of its mercy.

As the world caves in, it just makes me sad that it will finally be over. And that you probably won’t even understand half of the words I am saying. But let’s be real— as a snail, I never was comprehensible. I think we have established that, and you returned the favor so well.

Before you choose to reunite with him, recall this conversation every half-year you belong to each other. And in the off chance that there are times that you lose each other in the dark—recall this conversation again. Your understanding of my words will change as you enter your next stage of immortality.

So, silver it is?

Yes.

Let’s all see each other in the dark.

You too.














 




2025/06/01
[p] aperture

You get six shots. 

Here’s for the first one. Smile for the camera! 

Ah, I remember when the thought of being in a picture horrified me. 

You know, I look back to the times when I still didn’t know how to pose. I could describe myself in the past as a man who could do all of the wacky poses when a camera is not around, but when a flash of a camera who admired glints the retina, my eyes shied away, ruining the shot filled with good intentions.

So for the first shot, I will spend it on a smile that surpasses the auricle—a smile that fully embraces the light of the camerawoman, as if she was enchanted by the one in the photo.

Clink.

Besides my lack of eye contact in the past, I would also like to apologize for all of the cameras that have recorded your failed attempts to capture just a single moment of my happiness. Know for a fact though that it was never my intention to avoid the cameras. I just never got used to being in the spotlight.

For the second shot, I will spend it shunning all of the lights that are not your camera’s, just for a moment. So that I can truly show that I have grown since the days I was still scared of being in anyone’s field of view.

Clink.

Through the years that we were destined to partake in different performance channels was when I grew to realize that being captured in a polaroid picture isn’t all too bad. In fact, wouldn’t it be sad not to have a physical memory of what has been? But this is not what I want to impart upon you for this shot. 

I would like to commend your craftsmanship on setting up the poses of the man who has now begun to sail his own ship away from his abode. You know. The person who saved Montresor and became the chisel to the wall that was placed between you and me. The once very, very dreadfully nervous man who became the understanding being—as well as the first and only person I had confided my eternal contrition for what I have done before telling you. 

When I met him again, I felt that he had changed. He no longer needed the constant guidance but was grateful to come back to you to learn more poses. Changed by the piecemeal pushes of the gleam and the strides of the model of models, but knew that in times of need you were always there to coddle.

For my third and fourth shot, I will rip the three of our hearts together, his in the middle—in honor of he who had allowed us to take five more of the former.

Clink.

Just recently, I have had the courage to finally circle back and ask to finally take the pictures you wanted for the both of us. It has honestly been so freeing to be able to speak to the photographer without any sinking feeling that she still grieves what has been, just as the model has forgiven himself for what he had inadvertently done to one of his resident memorykeepers.

And so, for the fifth picture, I want it to be in a forest with all of the hidden figures of speech I have used in this piece of literature literally—the spotlights, the disposable polaroid pictures, the forest of clarity—in our final day of this chapter, where prejudice is nowhere to be found and the future is everywhere to be seen.

Where in the minds of one another, all we see is no longer what could have been taken but now what can be taken. 

Clink.

Before we go in our own ways, know that over the years, you have grown to be a well-esteemed person in our performance industry. So far that I could even say that I have heard people endeared by your service to the point of wanting to commission you for their own projects. I am so, so happy to hear that. That despite your relatively abysmal first impression on the art because of my doing, that you have still chosen to push through and have grown fond of the life of capturing memories and hearts.

Now that we have reached our sixth and final picture, I want you to close the camera and refrain from taking the shot.

For our final shot, I want you to capture me with the most transparent camera you possess. The windows to the soul. 

I know we will keep in touch.

Pero sa mga pagkakataong hindi tayo madalas magkita, nais kong makita mo ako hindi sa pamamagitan ng lente o tela-meralika ng kamera, kundi ang hindi nakahahadlang at nakakamanghang liwanag ng iyong pagtingin.

Blink.



2025/06/02
[p] nidavellir

Note: you may first want to read my letter for the dear friend.

Before I met the Great in his human form, there were two former demigods who had found him earlier than I did.

One of them was Hephaestus.

As the legends have said, Hephaestus was a wonderful inventor—a luminary in blacksmithing and all things fiery. One thing doesn’t sit right with me though: the books love saying he is the ugliest person in the world. I do not agree.

I felt a great resonating force, a turbulence before a serendipitous plane crash, in the back of my gluteus maximus when I encountered the man. I guess you could say his slam is larger than life. At first, I wasn’t really ready to talk to someone whom many considered a deity in the past, but as he mingled with humanity, I realized that his craftsmanship didn’t just extend to the physical realm.

So, you are the person who molded my God? With diamond wrenches under the trenches? One of them, at least—the person who allowed Him to mold me as you molded our dear friend. Such deed cannot have originated from the hideous being—because you are not hideous, but a beautiful being both in intention and appearance. “Handsome,” you might even say.

Anyway, be made aware that your inventions have done well to the people you’ve furnished. I cannot thank you more than enough for being the person that has been with him from the beginning of it all.

Do know though, that our mission does not end here. Today marks the return of Apollo into his reign above. Honestly, good for him—but he has also been a pivotal character in our dear friend’s prophecies. That only means one thing.

It’s our turn to help our sweet Xander realize and realize his fate.
[p] kismet
Note: you may first want to read my letter for the dear friend.

Before I met the Great in his human form, there were two former demigods who had found him earlier than I did.

One of them was Apollo.

Apollo is the god of the stars, but to him, he is the greatest healer and teller of prophecies. Before I even became friends with either of them, Apollo had already began writing and documenting the good and the bad of fates of our dearest friend.

That must have been a hell and heaven to experience.

Apollo, I understand.

Being human isn’t exactly easy. And living with a deity is probably one of the worst fates one can experience. I mean, who would like to live with someone who is in control of his fate but only pursues it when that strand of destiny has become gone for good? But it’s part of what makes him special you know, the way he doesn’t have to be pretend to be human to feel human.

My deepest gratitude for your sweet companionship to Him. We pay tons of respect to your dedication to your craft, and heave heavy hearts as you leave for higher ground.

But I know you’re leaving not because you no longer want to take care of our God. After all, your departure has been prophesied for a long time, and only now are my friend and I really understanding what makes a prophecy a prophecy.

In your journey and stay in Olympus, I hope you look down on us from time to time while Hephaestus and I try to make Xander realize that his fate is a self-fulfilling prophecy—one that he has to actively act towards to be able to achieve that fate.

When that happens, you’ll be one of the first to receive the message.

For now, take care… and stay safe living among the gods.

Come in.

Why must you keep yourself suffering like this?

Closing your eyes becomes a mirror to a phantom world you don’t even want to experience — vivid sensations you’d like to forget reminisced by the neurons firing in your mind, overstimulated by everything you see as you scroll through the red, blue, green hues of that small device.

I have no advice. I’ve given enough. I dont want you to come to me anymore. You’ll just have to destroy yourself.

No, not your entirety. Just the part that keeps bothering you even after all the parallel universes you traversed, trying to escape the truth.

Sure, all the stars have died. But it’s still alive, right? That white dwarf that pulsates sunspots every once in a while, reminding you of the scrambled signals sent by your remote satellite from eons ago?

You can’t kill a star. It will survive for billions of years. Its light will remain shining upon you even after the biological remnants of the world calcify your bones. 

But you don’t have to keep staring at it. The rays are striking, polarizing, but you must do what you can to avoid its radiance. Erupt volcanoes to fill the atmosphere with dreary ashes, build your own lead-fortified bunker and hide forever, or build a spaceship faster than the limits of our universe to run faster than it can reach us.

Yet, who am I to lie? You’re not going to do all of that. You love appreciating the bluish circlet of the night sky. You’ve built telescopes to observe the binary star systems of the night. That galaxy is your abode, your sonder, your amicy. 

Thus, I will do what I must. We are mentally connected after all. 

You will stay here suffering the backhanded treatment of the stellar sunset, while I’ll do my best to leap the different worlds to learn from the ones who have suffered the consequences. I can sense the epilogue for us, but I won’t let that happen. There’s so much more for us than a stupid, glimmering star in the night.

I love you, myself. But you can’t dream for something you will never achieve even at the speed of light. You’re not bringing me down with you. I’ll save us for the sake of me.
I’ll start from where it began. Yes, the day where you thought destiny made gravity pull you and the far dot in the sky together. 

Nothing is ever random. I’ll be back soon — hopefully, before her last deposits of ferrous core deplete into a supernova, taking everything we know and love into one hell of a collateral damage starshow.




